[AUDIO OUT]
[STREET NOISE]
[KEYS JANGLE]
>> It's February 26.
This is my movie.
I want abs.
This is the start of the movie.
And I'm walking over to a
friend photographer, who's going
to be taking my before picture.
I'm going through all sorts
of emotions at the moment.
I'm nervous.
I'm excited.
I'm not totally stoked to
be taking most of my clothes
off and getting a professional
photographer to shoot me,
but I know that it's necessary.
After this, that's it.
I'm going to start exercising,
following the protocol,
eating right, doing everything
I need to do to get rock
hard abs.
And so that is exciting for
me because, like many people,
I've been putting off
fitness and procrastinating.
And I'm tired of
procrastinating.
So I'm doing something about it.
But I'm still kind of nervous.
It'll be good though.
I mean, what do I
have to be nervous of?
If I don't have a six
pack at the end of this,
there will be no movie.
No pressure, right?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> My name is Sergei.
And I grew up in an extremely
health conscious family.
My Russian parents
didn't much care
for conforming to
society, which made
for an interesting childhood.
For the bulk of my youth, I
ate nothing but raw vegan food,
slept on a wooden plank
instead of a mattress,
took polar plunges
and frozen lakes,
and hiked across America while
foraging for wild edibles.
Those were some
exciting times that
vastly expanded my
worldview and helped
me shape some core beliefs
about the importance of being
healthy and fit.
Never in a million
years did I ever
think that I would have to
worry about being chubby.
But I was wrong.
Despite living what I considered
a healthy, active lifestyle,
I started getting fat.
At age 30, life stress,
relaxed eating choices,
and a slowing
metabolism appeared
to be the perfect
weight gaining recipe.
Seeing my reflection
in the mirror
was becoming increasingly
more painful,
as it depicted a dude with a
protruding gut, flabby love
handles, and a double chin.
Getting on a scale was
equally unpleasant,
as it produced a figure skirting
around the 200 pound mark.
>> 187.
>> More disturbing still was
the mental process caused
by gaining weight.
Putting on the pounds was
crushing my self-esteem,
stealing my happiness, and
making my general attitude
towards life shitty.
I was stuck in a vicious cycle.
Feeling heavy killed any
motivation I had to work out.
And a lack of exercise added
more weight, stress, and burden
to my life.
I observed my friends who
were in their 40s and 50s
and noticed that many of
them had weight issues.
Through friendly
conversations, I
learned that working
out at 40 or 50
was even more cumbersome
than it was at 30 for me.
These observations ultimately
led me to an epiphany.
At no point in time will it
be easier to get in shape
than now.
Every year that I
wait to make a change
will make it exponentially
harder to lose the weight
and achieve my fitness goals.
Shortly after this realization,
I was cruising around
on the internet and I typed
before and after fitness photos
into a search bar.
Right out the gate, I was struck
by how profound some people's
transformations were.
Not only did their bodies
look more toned and muscular,
but their eyes seemed brighter,
their posture straighter,
and their smiles wider.
I caught myself on the thought
that the people in the after
photos looked generally
younger and happier
than their old selves.
I was also taken aback at how
inspirational a simple photo
can be just by looking at
an image, an image that
was free of words, I
felt a strong drive
to start exercising
and change my ways.
Those photos lit a fire under my
ass and gave me the motivation
I needed to say,
enough is enough,
and tackle my personal fitness
goals once and for all.
I craved hard core stamina.
I desire a V-shaped torso,
a strong core, muscular arms
and solid legs.
I wanted abs.
I desperately wanted abs.
I vowed then and there that I
would find a way to get them.
I was pumped and ready to go.
The only trouble was I
didn't know where I was going
or how I was going to get there.
>> Hey, Sergei.
How you doing?
>> Intent on using myself as
a lab rat in my own fitness
experiment, I hired a film
crew and started making this
documentary.
>> My name's Jared Cruce.
I'm a professional photographer.
And I'll be taking the before
and after photos for Sergei's
documentary, "I Want Abs."
>> So I imagine
will be about here.
>> Yeah, has great.
Line up about there.
Maybe just scoot
this way just a bit.
Cool.
Looking good.
>> Cool.
So I guess I should get
into the monkey see.
>> Yep.
Bring it on.
>> Oh, god.
>> All right, how did it go?
That's it?
>> It's my first time
ever in a Speedo.
[SIGHS] I'm just creating
a lot of blackmail material
right now, aren't I?
>> All right.
>> Knowing full well how easy
it be to lie to myself about
my progress, I thought it would
be a good idea to snap a few
before photos to keep myself
accountable and on track.
In addition to
accountability, I hoped
that those unflattering
photos would also
give me motivation to continue
training should I ever
find myself in a workout low.
After thoroughly
measuring my entire body,
I paid my personal
trainer a visit
and had him conduct a body
composition test in order
to figure out my weight and
total body fat percentage.
>> What is a body comp?
>> A body comp is just
your percentage body fat.
I like all of my clients to be
between 10% and 20% body fat.
To give you an idea, the
typical American is 37%.
That's horrific.
That's horrible.
Less than 8% of
Americans are under 20%.
You want to be 10%
to 20% body fat.
That's where optimal
health is achieved.
How I achieve a body
comp is a caliper test.
I'll take five measurements.
And then I have a little
chart that gives me your age.
And I can extrapolate
and figure out
within 1 percentage point
of what your body comp is.
I like using body comp
because it's very accurate.
I've done thousands of them.
A lot of people use
body mass index, or BMI,
which is only accurate in
about 50% of the people.
>> So I have you
at 22% body fat.
I like to have all of my
clients between 10% and 20%.
>> OK.
>> I think a great goal over
the next 12 weeks is to get you
to 12%.
So we want to lose about
10% of your body fat.
What's your actual
physical weight?
Or should we do a weigh-in?
Let's do a weigh-in.
>> Let's do a weigh-in.
>> Yeah.
>> I did one already, but
my scale might have not been
accurate.
>> Let's use this
scale right over here.
>> I'm going to let
you bring it over.
200.
That's 150.
And move this to this.
So it looks like we got 188.
>> Cool.
>> Yeah.
>> I've actually gained a
pound since my last weigh-in.
>> OK.
Well, we're going to talk
about dietary intake.
That's really important.
So 188.
These are just
biomarkers that we're
going to use from now on
over the next 12 weeks.
>> Is it hard to get abs?
>> Yes.
It is very hard to get abs.
It's a lifestyle
change for most people.
There are genetics
play a part of it.
But for most people, if you
really want that six pack abs,
it's a lifestyle change.
So it's going to be
nutrition is huge.
Activity obviously is huge.
But nutrition is probably
the biggest component.
And then outside of that, it's
also taking care of yourself
through exercise and proper
rest to maintain a good hormone
balance as well.
>> I think anybody can get
abs so long as they have
the metabolic base
necessary to do so.
One thing that I find with
the clients I work with
is that a great deal of
people, particularly women,
and many men, are
metabolically compromised
from things like
persistent dieting,
eating the wrong foods.
They've become very
insensitive to insulin.
So I think the easy
answer is that, yes, it
is very difficult to get abs.
>> Getting abs is incredibly
easy if you have the right
program design.
I specialize in
functional training,
where you utilize
multiple muscle groups
in a 3-dimensional fashion.
You want to alter the pattern.
Basically, you have
a lot of people
that just do one exercise.
They do crunches, as an example.
You want to do a lot
of different exercises.
You want to be consistent
in your program design.
You want to have a program that
works everything and brings
balance to the system.
Also, abs are made
in the kitchen too.
It's your dietary intake.
You can have titanium abs,
and if you're 28% body fat,
you're not going to
have that cut look.
So you want to get down, if
you're a man, around 10%,
woman, 12% to 15%.
Body comp is really critical
to actually see those abs.
And I think that's what a
lot of people don't get.
Having a good functional
training program
that lasts about 50 minutes,
three or four times a week,
and you will get
titanium adds if you
are consistent with your program
and you have the right dietary
intake.
That's critical.
Guaranteed.
100%.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> It's March 6.
I'm rolling over to my
first training session
with John Hacker.
I'm hoping that he's going
to kick my butt today.
And I'm really
excited about this.
I can't wait to
start working out.
As you can see, I'm
growing out a beard.
I have a 6 o'clock
shadow going on.
And I have decided
that for the entire 12
weeks of this project, I'm
going to be growing my beard
to show time.
So hopefully by the
end of the 12 weeks,
I'll have rock hard abs
as well as a big beard
to prove that I did
this and that I'm real.
>> All right, Sergei.
>> What up?
>> How you doing, man?
>> I'm doing great.
>> Are you ready?
>> I'm so excited.
>> First exercise we're going to
do is a little exercise called
the Roman Twist.
Take this ball down.
Right over there, and I
want you to sit on the ball.
Bridge out.
Center of the neck
center the ball.
>> Like this?
>> Yep.
Put your hands up straight.
Hip up.
And you're going to rotate
the ball on your shoulders.
That's it.
Good.
15 to 20.
Fantastic.
The closer you put your feet
together, the more challenging
it's going to be.
But don't put them so close
that you're falling of the ball.
Always stay in
control, my friend.
Good job.
>> Going into this project, I
was well aware that it would be
difficult to get a six pack.
Every person that I
interviewed told me pretty much
the same thing.
There are no shortcuts
or quick fixes.
If you want abs, you have to
put in the time and effort.
After discussing my goals
with my personal trainer,
he helped me devise
a 3-month program
to help me get the
results I was after.
Over the course of
the next 12 weeks,
I would be engaging in various
functional fitness workouts
three to five times per week for
about 50 minutes per session.
I specifically chose functional
fitness as my workout method
because I wanted to
get fit in a way that
would help me move through
life with more ease
and not just enable me to
lift heavy weights at the gym.
>> How's that core doing?
Feel it?
Keep going.
Do a couple more.
Yeah, we're freaking
out the bogie in us now.
>> Did I mention I
hate ab exercises.
Oh, good.
You're going to love them soon.
And rest.
On this one, where
did you feel the most?
>> Actually, in my
abs, in my lower abs.
>> Yeah.
That's where we want to
hit, below the belly button
right here.
That's a really
hard area to hit.
This exercise is an exercise
that would get that.
>> I mean it's amazing.
But it's-- you're really not
doing all that much, but it's--
>> You're doing a lot.
I can tell--
I see people at the
other places where
I work that just do
crunches all the time, which
is the worst thing you can do.
They'll be really strung up
here and then they'll just boop.
They'll be really
weak below that.
Again, you want to have
balance to the system.
You want to attack everything.
>> So, I mean, you just
brought up a really good point,
because while the movie
is called "I Want Abs,"
it's not just about abs.
I don't want to have a
rock hard six pack and then
weak, dysfunctional
everything else.
>> Absolutely.
Absolutely.
>> Absolutely
>> Well, actually, the best
training program is one that
attacks the weaker areas.
You want to bring balance
to the whole system.
And that's what this whole
project is all about,
bringing balance to the system.
Any training program
should be like that.
You want to attack
your weak areas.
You want to just be really
strong and fit and healthy.
That's what most people want.
>> So doing this is going
to eat me all around like--
>> Health and wellness.
>> Health and wellness, but
also a proportionate ripped--
>> Yeah, as a side
effect, as a side effect.
You are powerful beyond measure.
>> I think you just got me
ready for my second set.
>> Second set.
Let's do it.
You are powerful beyond
I measure, my friend.
We all are.
All human beings are.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Put your palms down.
Now bring your hips up.
And lift this leg up 15 times,
while staying on the ball.
2, 3, control, a little
slower, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8.
Go to 10.
9, last one.
Now the other leg.
10 more.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So I just completed my first
workout session with John.
And I got to say, even though
I didn't do anything too crazy,
I'm worked.
Apparently my
entire core is weak,
and it needs a lot of work.
So I'm going to
continue on this path
and hopefully, like he
says, get titanium abs.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In addition to my
workouts with John,
I felt like I needed a little
bit of supplementary help
in order to reach
my fitness goals.
I hired a second
personal trainer,
who specialized in
kettlebell training.
Unlike a traditional
dumbbell, a kettlebell
is engineered so that
its weight is off center.
Because of this off
centered design,
a kettlebell recruits
more stabilizing muscles
and works your body more
like a concentration camp
than a piece of gym equipment.
Thus, kettlebell
training is considered
by many as the ultimate
form of functional fitness.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Levi, cut.
>> Think about it.
Think about what's happening.
>> It feels so good.
>> Nic was just saying that when
you get a heavier kettlebell,
you can use more of the weight
to counterbalance yourself
on a pistol.
And so that actually makes
the movement slightly easier.
So for this exercise,
the lighter the weight,
the more difficult that it is.
>> As we talked about
last time with the cleans,
when we do the alternating,
it becomes less that hip hinge
movement.
It's more that straight up and
straight down, corkscrew down,
corkscrew up.
If I'm doing an
alternating movement,
what's going to happen?
One's going to stay where it is.
OK, so getting that full
hip hinge isn't really
going to work.
So you know how when you
watch Sergei do his cleans
and snatches, he's
almost kind of straight
up and down through a lot of it?
All right, you're going to
do a lot of the same thing.
OK.
So you're really still
absorbed at the hips.
You're still going to
connect and deflect
a little bit, all right, but
it's just kind of soft movement
there.
All right.
Corkscrew down, corkscrew up.
So, right, we come up.
Catch it.
It's going to be-- you're now
going to go down right hand,
absorb and come right back up.
All right?
I just corkscrew down, up.
OK?
There's going to be a
little bit of a twist.
You got to be strong.
You got to be strong
in that fixation.
All right, that lock out there.
Great.
Up, lock it.
Down.
There you go.
You see that?
>> I just finished a
kettlebell workout,
which I do because it
helps me build muscle.
And it's also
really good cardio.
So is it going to be burning
that extra fat off my body.
Today, was a fundamentals
class, where we really
get to do all the movements
and learn how to do it right
and learn how to do it safe.
And it was amazing because
today I was kind of in a funk.
I was sort of tired of
the diet and, you know,
just kind of hit a low point.
And doing something active
has once again lifted my mood.
And I feel all around happy
and well and energized.
So if anything else
the kettlebell workout
was good for that.
>> So I want to watch it.
I'm going to throw it to you.
You're going to catch it.
Do a half squat.
And then throw it back.
All right, ready?
>> Yeah.
>> Let's do it.
Half squat.
Yeah.
Good.
Woo.
Keep your eye on the ball.
Good job.
Eye on the ball.
Excellent.
As adults we don't really
play catch very much.
This is great for hand-eye
coordination, balance, reaction
time.
Good.
Man, you haven't fallen off yet.
Most people have fallen
off by this time.
Bring your hips in a little bit.
Stay in alignment.
Bring the right foot
over a little bit more.
There you go.
Feeling that in the trunk?
>> Oh, yeah.
>> And the core?
Yeah, 15 to 20, each side.
Remember, the body
will want to cheat.
Don't let the body cheat, man.
Yeah.
These are fun, man.
These will give you
titanium obliques.
This will take care
of the muffin tops.
>> The body wants
to cheat so bad.
>> It does.
It does.
You're better off to do 15 in
good form, than 25 not so much.
5, keep going.
6.
Feeling it?
7, 8, we're going to go 12.
9, 10, yeah, two more.
11.
Last one.
Now flip around, feet that way.
Ha, ha, you're
thermoregulating now.
Watch out for the
muscle ball right there.
1, good.
2, 3.
All right, rest.
That's good.
So this little fact finding.
This is first time
we've done this.
We have muscle failure.
Muscle failure is success.
>> Is there any negative
repercussions of potentially
not resting enough?
>> Yeah, you get hurt.
You get overtraining syndrome.
Classic symptoms are fatigue,
feeling kind of rundown,
crankiness, not
sleeping at night,
overeating or under eating.
And you're going to achieve so
much more benefit if you train
properly and not
training all the time
at a really high level,
because if you push yourself,
you know, not only you have
the possibility of having
that overtraining, but also
your risk of injury goes up.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Try to keep you
elbows right back here.
Don't move the elbows forward.
Let's do 8 to 10.
Elbows all right?
Good job.
I'm going to give
you a nice long rest.
Skull Crashers do not live up
to the name of the exercise.
Do not crush your skull.
That's it.
You got it man.
One of the really important
reasons for this counterbalance
that I'm giving
you this 110 pounds
is it does take a lot of the
stress off of the lower back
and really helps you focus on
the rectus abdominal, or lower
abs.
Excellent, and rest.
Good job, man.
>> Oh, man.
That's good.
>> It's really amazing.
I've come into the gym.
I've had like zero energy.
I thought I was going to take
a nap for three sets today.
And after just doing
a few sets of this,
I can feel the energy
flowing back in.
Wow.
>> Yeah.
That's how it works, man.
You get your second wind.
Get back into that groove.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Today is April 2.
I've been doing this project
for exactly one month.
And so I decided that today
would be a really good day
to sit down and spend a couple
minutes discussing how I feel
and going through everything.
Before going into
this project, I
was experiencing some symptoms
that were somewhat alarming as
far as my health is concerned.
I was feeling very shaky.
I was having a lot of trouble
sleeping, very low energy,
like my energy was very erratic.
All of those symptoms
have completely gone away.
I feel alive.
I have this certain spring in my
step that wasn't there before.
I can see my stomach shrinking.
Like check this out.
You know, this might
not look like abs yet.
But literally a month ago,
this was out to here, you know.
And now, when I
pinch my stomach,
there's a lot less to pinch.
My arms are getting bigger.
Look at this.
I noticed that my
clothes are fitting
better than ever before.
And I'm finding that I'm
wearing shirts and pants that I
haven't worn in about a year.
When I go to cinch my belt, the
hole that I normally cinch to
is too loose.
So I go down two or
three holes past that.
After a month I'm
moving differently,
my thighs aren't
rubbing together as much
as they did, which I never
really told anybody about,
because I was a little
bit embarrassed.
But I was starting to
chafe in between my thighs,
because, I guess, they
were getting really big.
That's not happening anymore.
Basically, the routine
is that I've been
exercising five days a week.
I've been training
with a kettlebell guy.
I've been training with
my core workout trainer.
I've been running a
little bit on the side.
Most days it's just 55 minutes
of exercise and that's it.
And I wake up the
next day feeling sore.
My abs are hurting.
My muscles all over
the body are sore.
I'm shocked with the
amount of exercise
that this protocol requires,
because it's much less
than I originally thought.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Diet plays all the
role in getting abs.
And the reason why is
that everybody has them.
Like you have abs.
You wouldn't be able
to support yourself
through activities,
such as walking,
if you didn't have abs.
The issue is whether
or not they're visible.
So you can make the lines
or the cuts in your abs
deeper through
training, but you need
to reduce body fat accordingly
to make them visible.
>> The biggest mistake that
clients will come to me that
they'll make is they'll get
into this huge caloric deficit.
If you do that, if
you starve yourself,
I guarantee you're going
to gain stored energy.
You're going to put on body fat.
I've had clients that were
eating less than 1,000 calories
a day that we're 30% body fat.
You have to eat.
You've got to feed the machine.
By feeding the machine, you will
liberate that stored energy.
The first thing
I tell everybody,
stay away from anything white.
Don't eat white potatoes,
sugar, bread, flour.
You absolutely don't
want to pig out on meat.
That's real important.
So essentially, you want
to eat a lot of vegetables.
Smoothies are good.
Your largest meal
should be breakfast.
Smallest meal should be dinner.
And for the first month during
the initial conditioning phase,
you want to go to
bed a little hungry.
It's critical to have
a breakfast period.
You want to wake up
really, really hungry.
When you start waking
up hungry, that's
telling me that your
metabolic rate is going up.
So that should be
your biggest meal.
And then eat every three hours.
Shortening the meals
as you get to dinner.
Dinner, again, should
be your smallest meal.
And let's say you
eat at 6 o'clock,
then you shouldn't eat
anything until 6 o'clock
the next morning.
You want to not
really have anything
in your digestive tract
when you're sleeping.
>> Before embarking on
this fitness journey,
my traveling lifestyle and heavy
workload enabled me to develop
several bad dietary habits.
As it was before, I frequently
skipped eating breakfast
in order to get to
work a little faster.
Once at work, I forgot
about food for hours
until my body gave me the
"I need food now" signal.
In a hungry state,
I often settled
for less than
perfect food choices
and regularly gorged
myself until I was stuffed.
Then, I would take
another massive break
from eating until
I was once again
starving and ready
to overindulge.
Around 9:00, 10:00,
or 11:00 at night,
I'd get hungry again
and eat a huge dinner.
Then I'd go to sleep as my body
started digesting my last meal.
This type of feeding
schedule was like an anvil
for my metabolism.
It slowed it down to a crawl
and definitely contributed
to my weight gain.
It also made me feel
sluggish and old.
Ironically, in an effort to save
time and be more productive,
I actually started
feeling crappy,
which significantly
hindered the amount of work
I could do in a day.
By contrast, my new
diet, which emphasizes
eating a big breakfast, followed
by reasonably sized meals
every two to three hours
throughout the day,
keeps my metabolism high
and my blood sugar level.
As a result, I feel more
energetic, more satiated,
have fewer mood swings.
And I'm able to liberate
stored energy, a.k.a. fat,
at a steady rate.
This way of eating has also
reminded me how pleasant
it is to cook my own meals.
Cooking at home
lets me be creative
and allows me to make
art in the form of food.
It forces me to unplug
from all the electronics
that are constantly
competing for my attention
and helps me spend time
with the people that I love.
It seems counterintuitive,
but this routine also
helps me save tons of time.
Every day of this
project, my sister
comes over to help
me make my meals.
Together, we spend
about an hour cutting up
various fruits and vegetables.
We make delicious
soups and salads,
using the best,
healthiest ingredients,
and devise new recipes to
keep things interesting.
Within this single hour, we
manage to make all of our meals
for the entire day,
including snacks.
Once we're done, we're done.
All of our food gets neatly
packed into glass jars.
Then when hunger strikes,
all we have to do
is open the jar of
food and enjoy it.
This literally saves
me hours per week
as hunting for three or
four individual meals
daily takes up a lot of time.
As for the contents
of my diet, my food
hasn't changed all that much.
The majority of
what I eat consists
of raw fruits and vegetables.
This means lots of
big, big salads,
and lots of ripe
fruit as nibbles.
I also like to
eat cooked grains,
such as buckwheat, millet,
quinoa, and roasted root
vegetables, because they
add substance to my diet.
The biggest thing that
I've changed about the way
that I eat is I've added
some animal products back
into my diet.
Growing up, I ate an
entirely vegan diet
for 18 years of my life.
For 15 of those years,
I was extremely strict
and followed 100% raw food diet.
Though my rigid dietary
choices initially
helped me overcome my
childhood health problems,
they also eventually
led me to develop
several serious
nutrient deficiencies.
At a certain point,
I could no longer
deny that my diet
wasn't serving me.
So I started experimenting
with farm fresh animal products
and regain my
vibrancy once again.
Presently, I eat eggs,
fish, and poultry,
and think it's very important
to source these things
from small, local farms
where animals live happy
lives and are treated well.
Most of the animal
products that I presently
consume come from my friend's
farm called Willow Wit Ranch.
I've personally been
on their property
and can be certain that their
animals are well cared for.
My general stance
on animal products
is such, if you're going to
be able to eat eggs, fish,
chicken, et cetera,
it's a good idea
to make sure that they
are ethically raised.
Every morning of this
project, as well as
every morning in general, I
start with a green smoothie.
Green smoothies have a wide
array of health benefits.
They're hydrating
for the whole body.
They provide good muscle
and tissue repair.
In my documentary "Powered
by Green Smoothies,"
I followed around
10 athletes and made
them drink a quart of green
smoothie every single day.
And we found that
green smoothies
helped them to improve
their endurance,
help them recover
better, and just help
them feel all around awesome.
So in this documentary,
I'm definitely
going to be using green
smoothies as part of my meals.
>> One of the things I want to
talk about is I try to get all
my clients in the pool.
The pool is magical as far
as strength, endurance,
and flexibility.
When you're doing
a pool workout,
you're basically doing
thousands of core rotations.
I cannot wait to
get you in the pool.
If you're re-engineering
your body,
a combination of strength
training, functional training,
and swimming will really
give you incredible abs.
>> Yep, keep back in use.
That's good.
So don't fight the water
when you have this on, OK.
You don't have to kick so you're
going to be conserving energy,
because you still have
like an eight beat kick.
You're still wasting a
lot of energy kicking.
This is going to keep the
lower body on the surface,
because you want to
rotate on the surface.
OK?
And really focus
on good rotation,
turning your head to
breathe, and trying
to get the timing down.
OK, so let's try this.
It's called a pull buoy.
Don't think e-dimensionally
where your hands are like that,
because you'll
freak yourself out.
All right.
Thinking can be a
dreadful affliction.
All right.
Rotation, and let's swim at 25.
Breathe.
Good.
That's good.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Last month this was
substantially bigger.
This is my muffin top.
And the month before
that it was even bigger.
And so this, last month,
became soft, kind of jiggly.
And then it just
started to shrink.
Boom.
I've also noticed from working
on my arms and my upper body,
just bigger arms, bigger biceps,
bigger pecs, stronger back.
Today, I did my third body comp.
Body comp, again, is where
I measure my fat, my weight,
and John does some calculations
and kind of tells me
where I'm at, how much
further, I need to go.
And as of today, May 8, I have
dropped another 2.5% body fat.
So that's about 8% total.
I've dropped about
14 pounds in weight.
And I've gained between
5 and 6 pounds of muscle.
The last week, though, has
been kind of challenging.
I've been having ups and downs
in my mood and my energy.
Feeling like am I going
to get there, you know?
Am I going to have
rock hard abs?
After all, the documentary
is called "I Want Abs."
And so it's critical
that at the end of it
I have a six pack that
I could be proud of.
One thing that's been
happening repeatedly
is people have been coming
up to me and saying,
hey, you know, how
are your abs going?
Show me your abs.
And when I lift up my shirt
reluctantly, they're like,
oh, you still have a ways to go.
But the thing is
that these folks,
they haven't been
with me since day one.
They haven't seen me
firsthand, you know, naked
at the start of the projects.
So they haven't seen the
progress I've already made.
And I'm still very much in
the process of developing
definition and showing abs.
And that in itself has
been kind of discouraging,
because it's kind of been
like freaking me out.
Like will I make it?
My plan of attack for
that specifically,
now when people say,
show me your abs,
how's it going, I'm
going to tell them
if you want to
see my abs, you're
going to have to purchase this
movie because you ain't getting
nothing for free.
I wonder sometimes
if this documentary
isn't lacking drama.
Thus far, there
hasn't been any drama.
It's just been like
positive all the way.
And, sure, there are
days that are harder
and there are days where
I don't want to work out.
But they're few and far between.
And I can tell you
this, that when
I do go and work out
and push through that,
I just feel 100% better.
You know, I felt pretty
crummy, I went to my workout,
a couple bosu flies
into it, I felt better.
Then a couple more
bosu balls into it,
I felt like incredible.
And it's been a couple
hours since that I'm
recording this check-in.
I still feel really good.
I think I'm addicted now.
I think I can't quit.
It's a very
maintainable lifestyle
that I've been living the
last couple of months.
And I think that
ultimately when I
get to the end of
filming this documentary,
I don't foresee myself
changing a whole lot,
because I don't
really miss anything
from how I used to do things.
Like the food is awesome.
The exercise is great.
It's 95% positive.
And then the lows
are to be expected.
>> Our health and
wellness is priceless.
You can't put a
value on this, which
it blows my mind that some
people, the first thing to go
is their fitness program,
their dietary intake.
But this is like the most
important thing, because it
enhances the human condition.
>> So it's interesting
that you bring that up,
because this week, what I've
kind of run into over and over
again, is people
coming up to me.
They know that I'm
doing this project.
They to try and
lift up my shirt,
which is a little intrusive.
And then they're like,
why are you doing this?
Why are you working on your abs?
There's so many other things
that you could be working on.
Like isn't that a
little conceited?
And I've got to say it's like
been a little bit harder.
It's kind of brought
me down a little bit,
because I'm thinking
like, I mean,
am I doing something wrong
here by working on my body?
>> What interests me the most
about those people who lift up
your shirt and say,
why are you doing this,
is my counter to that is, why
would you not be doing this?
Because your health and wellness
is the most important thing
on the planet.
It's way more important than
stuff or money or anything
else, because if you
don't have your health,
you don't have anything.
And I know what that's like.
I remember lying in a
hospital room for 22 days
not having my
health and wellness.
And the whole thing about
being cut and having great abs,
that's a byproduct of just
being incredibly healthy.
It's not conceited.
Yeah, I think you're
doing the world a service
by being as fit and as
healthy as possible,
because then you can
operate on a higher level
and you can help other people.
So it's very non-conceded
to really work
on your health and wellness,
because it helps everybody.
It brings everybody up.
So I don't understand
that type of mentality.
And I think a lot of
people, they don't get it.
They don't get that your health
and wellness is everything.
And it enhances the
human condition.
And that it truly is priceless.
You can't put a price on it,
which is why what you're doing
is the best investment anybody
could ever make, period.
So-- so let's start investing.
We're going to be interactive.
I'm going to throw
that ball to you,
and you're going to
throw it back to me.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> That was great.
Yeah.
So how's it feeling, man?
Feeling good?
>> Oh, my goodness.
That's why I recommend a
personal trainer at least
sometimes, because few people
can do that by themselves.
And I'm definitely not
one of those people.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So if we have about 15 days
left until I'm supposed to be
done.
So I'll be at that 3-month mark.
>> Yes.
>> So one thing I'm noticing
is that there's like--
I'm developing more
muscle definition.
And I think I could
get there, but it's
starting to stress me out.
So I'm thinking should I
add another moment in order
to really get--
should I make it four
months instead of three.
Because the movie's
called "I Want Abs,"
I wanted to be indisputable.
I want undisputed abs.
And I think this is
really good progress,
but I think I could
come down even more.
>> Yeah, well, I think you've
answered your question,
my friend.
So, yes, let's do it.
>> And you'd be up for
getting a fourth month?
>> I'm up for it.
Hey, I am joyful
to rip you apart
at the cellular
level, my friend.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hello.
>> Hey, what up?
>> How's it going?
>> Good.
How are you?
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Thanks for helping me out.
>> Yeah, for sure.
This is so fun.
>> I'm three months
into my project.
I've been working
out and eating right.
And as I get closer
to my after picture,
I'm realizing that
even though I'm
developing pretty good
muscle definition,
I'm going to need to be able
to flex correctly in order
to show it off.
I need some help posing.
I need some help figuring
out how best to flex
to display my muscles better.
>> Absolutely, oh, good.
I love helping with that.
>> And so I was hoping that I
could pick your brain and just
kind of--
can you help me out with that?
>> Absolutely.
Let's do it.
>> Sweet.
>> So just like flex
your abs for me.
So, yeah, just act like
you're all like heated,
like ready to beat someone up.
Yeah.
Let's talk about your lats,
because in bodybuilding,
you're trying to give the
impression that you have
a small waist and a big back.
Your lats to right here.
Yeah, so they come all
the way down your back
like this, right,
and they come down.
So when you take a big
breath and you fill it up,
you can feel this muscle,
right, kind of start
to engage and poke out.
That's what you're
trying to look for.
Mm-hmm.
And that's the same thing
here with your bicep.
So you'll see lots
of bodybuilders
do this little hand
thing, because that
helps them kind of flex
it a little bit more.
If you suck in and
pull up-- yeah,
can you make your belly
button come up a little bit?
Mm-hmm.
>> That about it.
>> Yeah.
But all of that popped.
You see that?
All your little scalenes
went pop, pop, pop.
Yep.
And you can see--
where am I at-- you can
see your line down here
as it starts to come in.
There you go.
Do you see that definition?
And that one?
>> OK, we're going to have
a pose down right now.
>> OK.
Are you ready for this?
>> I'm ready for this.
>> OK.
Let's do it.
Let's walk in.
OK.
Good luck.
Ooh.
OK.
Biceps.
Perfect.
And then turn to the side.
Yep.
And then turn all the way back.
Do your back with no arms.
Breathe into it.
Remember, just open that up.
Open that up.
Oh, yeah.
That's different.
Now bring your biceps up.
Good.
And then let's turn all the
way to the other side again.
Find that triceps.
And roll it back.
Smile at the judges.
Yeah.
And if you're a girl,
you'll be like, hey.
And if you're a guy,
you'd be like, what up.
And then you'd walk off stage.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> My food portion since the
beginning of this project have
shrunk.
I'm finding that it
takes a lot less food
to keep me fueled
throughout the day.
And this happened naturally.
I didn't force myself
to eat smaller meals.
I've also learned that
it's just as important
when you eat as what you eat.
I eat a solid breakfast.
I eat a snack in between
breakfast and lunch.
Most days, I'll eat two
lunches, a couple hours
apart because that enables
me to shrink my portion size.
Then I eat another snack.
And then I eat dinner.
And that's it.
On top of eating
really healthy food,
I've drastically
changed the timing
of when my meals hit my body.
And that has been an
incredible thing to witness.
The energy levels
are incredible.
And I just feel light
on my feet all the time.
I never have that
feeling of heaviness.
And I always have this
feeling that I could just
get up and run.
And that feels good.
As far as the workouts
themselves are concerned,
I noticed a shift at the
beginning of the month.
At the start of
this month, there
were still days when
I had to kind of drag
my heels a little bit.
It wasn't always pleasant.
And then something happened.
And now, they're my
favorite part of the day.
At the beginning, when
I started this project,
I had no idea what
it takes to get abs.
That's why I'm
making this movie.
I wanted to find out.
And as it turns out,
it's a lot easier
than I thought initially.
My initial thoughts
and concerns were
that I'd have to be
exercising five hours a day,
and then it would be
unpleasant and that I'd have
to eat highly restrictive diet.
But the recipe for abs
is actually quite simple.
The recipe for abs is a good
diet plus good program design
and consistency.
And that's it.
Good program design
in my opinion
is first and foremost
something that's
fun, that you enjoy doing.
And it's also
functional fitness.
So I'm not just lifting
weights in one fashion.
I'm lifting weights
in a way that I'm
using stabilizing
muscles, and I will
be able to apply those
exercises into real life.
For example, when I do yoga
ball work or bosu ball work,
I'm using stabilizing
muscles in my core
that I can then use
when I go surfing.
It's exercising that
helps the real world.
And I think it's very
important to find stuff
that you're excited about.
John helps me do core work.
He makes it fun.
It's not just doing
sit-ups, boring sit-ups.
He makes everything fun.
We do a lot of
different exercises.
That keeps me engaged.
I found Nic.
He teaches kettlebells.
Kettlebells add an element
of danger into my workouts,
because obviously you have
this big heavy kettlebell.
And you have to be
mindful and not drop it
on your foot or your face.
I actually find that with
kettlebells, I work out
and I'm so focused on being
careful that the workout can
just run by quickly.
And I don't even
notice the time fly by.
So good program design
for me is functional
fitness and to find
things that you enjoy.
We all have big egos.
We all want to grab
the big weights.
We get to the gym,
and it's like, I'm not
going to grab the 10 pounders,
I want the 30 pounders.
And that's the zone
where you get hurt.
And if you get hurt, you
can't keep doing workouts.
You can't keep
working on your body.
So one thing that
John has been very
helpful in helping me
understand is that it's
important to start light.
At the beginning
of this experiment,
he would give me 10
or 12 pound weights.
And I'd be doing
curls or butterflies.
And I was like, thank
God, I'm in this gym
alone because this
is embarrassing.
But the thing
about it is that it
built my muscles incrementally.
And now, I'm at the point where
I'm using 30 pound weights.
And not only does it not feel
heavy, but it feels safe.
My body can accommodate
that weight.
And building off that, I think
it's important in the beginning
to have a personal trainer
because a personal trainer
adds a level of accountability.
I noticed for myself, it's a lot
harder to do something for me
than it is for somebody else.
And so when I know
that John is coming,
when I know that I've
paid John for my workout,
I sort of have no
choice but to go.
Hiring a trainer isn't cost
effective for everybody.
But I think that it is a very
good tool in the beginning,
because it makes you
go to the workouts,
and it helps you form
that healthy pattern.
On that note of having
a personal trainer,
it's also worth mentioning
that it's very difficult
to find a good trainer.
And it's absolutely imperative
that you find a good trainer.
When you choose a
personal trainer,
make sure that you
interview them.
Ask them specific questions
based off the results
that you want to attain.
Like are you confident
that I'm going to have abs?
Or are you confident
that I'm going
to build upper body strength?
And based off how
they respond, you'll
know if they're the right
trainer or the wrong trainer
for you.
My friends were concerned
that this project was
driven by vanity and
that I would become
more vain the fitter I got.
But I've actually learned
that the opposite is true.
Before when I was a little
bit overweight, was pudgy,
I found that I was constantly
stressed and concerned
with how I looked.
I was always looking
in the mirror
and making sure that
my hair looked good,
that I was wearing clothes
that concealed my shape.
It was like a perpetual thing.
I was always like, don't
take pictures of me.
Or do I look good
in that picture?
Whereas now, I look in the
mirror and my reflection that's
looking back at me is
an awesome reflection.
And I love it.
And I find that I'm just
so much less stressed.
I'm able to just
go on with my day,
and I'm not concerned
about any of it.
I don't care what I'm
wearing, where I'm going,
who's taking pictures of me.
I'm just free.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> OK, so the place that I'm at,
if you're smart you can guess
where that is.
It just expanded
its organic section.
So it's a great
place to come and buy
inexpensive organic food.
If I were to shop for these
things at my local health food
store, I would spend thousands
upon thousands of dollars.
So when I come to
a place like this,
it's an easy way to
get really good food
and save a little cash.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> It's funny, I'm just cruising
around the store talking
to myself about various
fruits and vegetables.
And people are
looking at me crazy,
like what's he doing
just talking to himself?
And I think that may be a
good strategy for next time
would be to wear some Bluetooth
or like Apple headphones.
So people just think I'm on
the phone and I'm not crazy.
So check it out.
I've got a whole
cart load of food.
That's mangoes.
I got oranges.
I got pineapples, celery,
tomatoes, cherries, avocados.
And I only spent $139.76.
This cart of food at
a health food store
would have easily cost $400.
So that's how I shop.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I think it's like this.
>> After four months
of consistent training,
my coach John suggested that I
put my fitness to the ultimate
test by competing
in a triathlon.
Unlike other races, triathlons
require participants
to swim, bike, and
run, thus challenging
every muscle in the body.
I was extremely apprehensive
to compete in anything,
let alone a triathlon.
But after constant persuasion
from John, I agreed to try it.
And the results were better
than I could have ever expected.
There was a point
when I was running
the last leg of the race when
I was no longer passing people.
I remember thinking, man,
the guy in front of me
must have a big lead over me.
I don't think I'll
be able to catch him.
Shortly, thereafter, I
crossed the finish line
and split the
ribbon with my body.
I came in first place.
There was nobody ahead of me.
>> Booyah.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[HEART BEAT]
>> So this is the
after photoshoot.
And this marks the
end of the project.
This is the last thing
that we're going to shoot.
>> What up, Jared?
>> Hey, Sergei.
>> How's it going.
>> Yeah, welcome.
>> Good to see you, man.
>> Good, man.
Come on in.
Valya and I are
just checking out
some of the stuff we did
from the previous shoot.
>> Cool.
Well, let me hop into my Speedo.
And we'll go from there.
>> Cool.
>> Let's do it.
>> Take some after shots.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In my upbringing, I was
taught that when you want
to lose weight,
you have to fast.
And I think this is
a very common belief.
And what I learned over
the last four months
is that this belief isn't
necessarily true, because I
lost weight through eating.
One of my major
takeaways in this project
has been that it's
just as important
when you eat as what you eat.
Because I would eat breakfast
religiously every morning
and then from that point on eat
every two hours until 7:00 PM,
my metabolism
experienced a spike,
my blood sugar stayed level and
consistent throughout the day,
and I was able to lose
weight, lose fat naturally,
without stretch marks.
Consistently, I lost
about 4 pounds a month.
That's a huge, huge
eye-opener for me
that you don't have to starve
yourself or deplete yourself
of calories to lose weight.
You actually have to eat.
People always say that
you should love yourself.
But what does that really mean?
When I started this
project, I got all sorts
of different comments.
Some people would say, it's so
awesome that you're doing this,
good job.
Other people would say, why
are you wasting your time?
This is so superficial.
You shouldn't be
working on your abs.
There are many other causes
that are much better than this.
And I learned that
choosing healthy habits
over unhealthy habits is an
act of true love to yourself.
So when I choose to
eat healthy food, when
I choose to go to
the gym regularly,
I'm giving myself
a big, big hug.
I'm actually doing something
very pleasant, very
loving for myself, for my body.
And that, that in and
of itself, that choice
to do something
healthy repeatedly
is how I lift my
own self-esteem.
When I was going
into this project,
I had pretty big expectations.
My expectations
initially were that I
was going to get really fit,
that I would start noticing
more definition right away.
And I had a little bit of
a freak out a month or two
in when I'd been working
out for a solid 30, 40 days
and I started feeling stronger
but nothing was changing.
I was still kind of
pudgy in the gut.
I didn't have as much
definition in the arms
as I would have wanted to.
And I had this mini panic, like
the 3-month mark is coming up.
I'm supposed to have figured
some stuff out by now,
but I'm not.
Is it working?
And so then I had a
meeting with my film crew.
And we decided to extend the
project for another month,
make it four months
instead of three.
And it wasn't until
the third month
that I really started
noticing the difference.
The fat really started melting,
that the muscle definition
started showing up.
I had these expectations
for fast results.
And instead what I got was
slow and steady results.
This is something
that's very important
to mention I think because
often people will start
going to the gym in January.
It's called the January effect.
And they have all this
desire to live a better year.
They have all these
New Year's resolutions.
And a month into it, when
they don't see any results,
they all quit.
Had those people not
quit on the first,
but taken it another
month, month and a half,
that's when the results
start showing up.
So it's a much more gradual
process unfortunately.
But, you know what?
What's the rush?
Once you get fit,
you can maintain it
for the rest of your life.
It's not really a race.
Enjoy the process.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Four months ago, being
fit was no more than a dream.
It seemed impossible and
completely out of my reach.
At the start of this project,
the title of this movie,
"I Want Abs," described my most
honest desire to get in shape
and figure out if the
effort was worth it.
Today, I can attest that
the effort is worth it.
During the making
of this film, I
learned that the
process of getting fit
was much easier than I expected
and that the lifestyle change
was a pleasant one.
The transformation of
my body was accompanied
by elevated self-esteem,
stronger willpower, and a lot
more happiness.
Walking through
life in a fit body
is a completely
different experience
than in a body
that's out of shape.
It's absolutely awesome.
And I highly recommend it.
I feel alert and ready for
whatever life throws my way.
And this is an
incredible feeling.
So what's the secret
to getting abs?
One hour of vigorous exercise
three to five times per week,
eating six small meals that
consist of healthy ingredients
daily, not eating late at
night and being consistent.
It's that simple.
This project helped
me to realize
that it's just as difficult and
expensive to get out of shape
as it is to get in shape.
In order to get
out of shape, one
must regularly purchase cookies
and other expensive junk foods,
spend countless tedious
hours in sedentary poses,
and put up with all the physical
and emotional limitations
of such a lifestyle.
By contrast, being fit requires
a trainer, a gym membership,
and time to achieve results.
But unlike being out of
shape, the side effects
of living a healthy
lifestyle are only positive.
Any one person is
only 20, 40, or 100
workouts away from being in
the best shape of their lives.
You're going to live
those days anyway.
So why not invest into a
better future for yourself?
It's daunting to start and
the results show up gradually.
That's why I encourage you to
enjoy the process and trust
that you'll get there.
And most importantly,
don't stop.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> OK, so we're heading
to The Flat Top,
where I'm going
to finally shave.
I've been wearing a beard
for quite a long time.
At the start of the
movie, I told you
that I was growing
out of a beard
to show progression and time.
And now, I'm going full circle.
I have abs.
I have a beard.
And I want my face back.
I've recruited three
friends who are
going to help me pick a
new facial hair style.
So this is the beard cut.
>> Grow a beard on your abs
to show progress of time.
>> To the right.
Right.
>> There you go.
>> How you guys doing?
>> Grayson, what up?
>> Wait, wait, wait, wait.
Sit down, you guys.
And go, Sergei.
>> Grayson, what up?
>> It's morning.
How you doing?
>> Good morning.
I'm doing great.
>> So what are we doing today?
>> I'm going to give you
full creative classes.
Just cut my beard off
however you see fit.
>> OK.
Sounds good.
[MUSIC PLAYING]